---
author: Mang
date: '2005-11-08 01:08:15'
layout: post
title: MangITP
---

- recognizable image
- human image

- aesthetically, wanted pixels that were uniform except for colour

- liked feeling of movement and space in Van Gogh's work
  - tried to recreate by varying the heights of the pushpins
  - e.g. tried to recreate dynamism of background using relatively few pixels

- after finished, image seemed lost in sea of white
  - used black frame to 

Van Gogh by Pixels 
mang 2005

Van Gogh by Pixels is an attempt to recreate a familiar human portrait using pushpins as picture elements.  The pushpins were appealing because they are uniform in shape and the height of the spherical ends can be set by the depth they are pushed into the foamboard backing (allowing limited play in 3 dimensions).  While using relatively few colours, Van Gogh achieves a sense of depth and movement through the texture of his strokes and I attempted to recreate some of this by varying the heights of the pushpins.  In the background especially, the varying heights of the pins help echo some of the dynamic movement of the painting using relatively few pixels.

The pushpin portrait was completed by eye while looking at the Van Gogh original.  I tried to find a natural spacing for the pixels instead of staying to a regular grid (Van Gogh's strokes are not uniform).  After completing the portrait using just the pushpins I felt it was lost in a sea of white and added the black frame.  The frame also helps to evoke the nature of the Van Gogh portrait as a painted image.

I am hunter and gatherer for Clay Shirky's brain:

[http://del.icio.us/mang/research](http://del.icio.us/mang/research)

[MangResearchWhiteBikes](MangResearchWhiteBikes.html)

[MangResearchKernel](MangResearchKernel.html)

[MangResearchRedCross](MangResearchRedCross.html)




[MangAlgorithmicComposition](MangAlgorithmicComposition.html)

When the going gets weird, the weird turn pro.

E->F
Quand aller obtient étrange, de tour étrange pro.

    F->E
    When to go obtains strange, of strange turn pro.

  E->S
  Quando andare ottiene sconosciuto, della girata sconosciuta pro.

    S->E
    When to go it obtains disowned, of the turn disowned for.
